Modern Java Features
====================

Java has added several features that reduce boilerplate and make common code
clearer. This chapter highlights examples that already live in the companion
``java-14`` project.

Records
-------

A record is a compact way to declare a data carrier. Java generates the
constructor, accessors, ``equals()``, ``hashCode()``, and ``toString()``.

.. literalinclude:: java-14/src/main/java/com/oneoffcoder/java/record/RecordDemo.java
   :language: java
   :linenos:
   :lines: 20-24
   :dedent: 2

The generated methods behave like the methods you would normally write by hand
for a value object.

.. literalinclude:: java-14/src/main/java/com/oneoffcoder/java/record/RecordDemo.java
   :language: java
   :linenos:
   :lines: 6-17
   :dedent: 4

Records are immutable by default. That makes them useful for simple values that
should not change after construction.

Improved stream iteration
-------------------------

``IntStream.iterate`` can include a termination predicate. The example below
starts at ``1``, continues while the value is less than ``10``, and increments
by ``1`` each time.

.. literalinclude:: java-14/src/main/java/com/oneoffcoder/java/stream/StreamImprovement.java
   :language: java
   :linenos:
   :lines: 8-9
   :dedent: 4

This form is often easier to read than creating an infinite stream and then
limiting it later.

Lombok
------

Lombok is not part of the Java language. It is a library that generates common
code at compile time through annotations. This can reduce boilerplate, but it
also makes the build depend on an annotation processor.

.. literalinclude:: java-14/src/main/java/com/oneoffcoder/java/lombok/Lombok00.java
   :language: java
   :linenos:
   :lines: 30-45
   :dedent: 2

The builder generated by Lombok lets callers create objects with named fields.

.. literalinclude:: java-14/src/main/java/com/oneoffcoder/java/lombok/Lombok00.java
   :language: java
   :linenos:
   :lines: 16-24
   :dedent: 4

Use Lombok deliberately. It can make simple model classes shorter, but teams
must agree on IDE setup and build behavior.

Tuples
------

Java does not have a built-in tuple type. The ``javatuples`` library provides
tuple classes such as ``Pair``, ``Triplet``, and ``Quintet``.

.. literalinclude:: java-14/src/main/java/com/oneoffcoder/java/tuple/Tuple01.java
   :language: java
   :linenos:
   :lines: 13-27
   :dedent: 4

Tuple values can be accessed by position.

.. literalinclude:: java-14/src/main/java/com/oneoffcoder/java/tuple/Tuple02.java
   :language: java
   :linenos:
   :lines: 10-15
   :dedent: 4

Tuples are convenient for quick grouping, but a named class or record is usually
clearer when the values have meaning in your domain.
